the US has a big no huge problem and we
are going to discuss that today it comes
from two fronts and we are going to
explain why both of these happening at
the same time puts the US in a tight
spot you came here for the truth so let
me unveil that for you in today's video
we're going to look at the United States
in a precarious position where they've
been doing something for decades and
decades getting away with it but now
things are changing at least in the
short term and so what I think for
everybody they must pay attention to
what I've got to show we'll begin with
this we're going to look at bonds and I
want to look at the market in general
and the first thing is about the Federal
Reserve because they are certainly front
and center Jefferson says the FED can
proceed carefully mindful of yields rise
fed Vice chair says he's cognizant of
the impacts of higher yields and so at
this time the bond market is signaling
hey we've got an issue flashing red
light everywhere the Federal Reserve is
saying we got it don't worry of course
the bond market doesn't listen to
anything it just reacts okay and so you
also see the Central Bank in a sensitive
period managing risks that is also true
here at this time because we can see
this right now the United States being
the most prominent of all and it needs
to maintain Focus but uh they're having
a challenge so we'll talk more about
that uh you can see right hear that the
biggest buyers of the US debt are not
buying and that is the big story for
today we're going to look at that
imagine you've got a customer you've got
a mom and pop shop and your regular
customer the one that comes in every day
and that's the you know your anchor
because the business can run because
you've got these regular customers and
suddenly they don't show up uhoh now
you've got a problem and the same thing
applies lies to the US government
right um who's going to step in that's
the case so if the bigger buyers the
biggest buyers if your best customer
isn't coming and shopping what do you do
and who is going to save you can you
guess where we're going with this I'd
love to know what you think watch the
reactions of the banks because whatever
happens with these Banks you might say
ah who cares about the banks but you got
to understand that is a bell with we
weather excuse me that is a signal so we
watch what they do we watch the Jamie
demons we look at the Goldman saches and
we try to pull a little bit of
information and see what they are doing
and I'll give you some of that
information right here in this video
that is what we need to test as a signal
for what's to come here we have more
America's biggest Bond buyers aren't
buying bonds now right away you can
definitely see that why that would be an
issue behind the surge in US Government
bond yields over the last six months is
a simple fact China and the fed the two
of the biggest players in the market
aren't buying and of course that's huge
huge and so they're basically saying
yeah China's not doing it and the
Federal Reserve is not buying anymore in
fact they are part of this quantitative
tightening that's taking place right
here here what does that mean it means
they are specifically letting their
bonds run off so they had 9 trillion of
total balance sheet and for the
treasuries and the mortgage back
Securities they've been just kind of
letting that go so let's say it was a
oneyear um treasury they would just you
know as it matured just let it go before
what they were doing was buying more and
now they're just kind of letting that
mature and so that means that their
balance sheet is starting to decline
when they do that they they're drying up
liquidity just like you would have your
TAP before it was run at full blast so
imagine that thing is running at full
blast and it's filling up that sink but
now it's kind of going all the way shut
so you might have some water filled into
that sink or that tub it might be there
but what they're doing here is they've
shut the tap off so no additional
waterers coming in that currency that
current and maybe there's a a little bit
of a leak in there because that's
depleting as time goes on so you see if
we don't have that happening well then
the banks are the first one to take that
hit okay and so uh we'll see this right
here over the last year the Federal
Reserve has decreased its Holdings by
$650 billion that's that's just for the
treasuries okay so in total it's
approximately about a trillion dollar um
they go on to talk about China as well
there's issues with China because not
everything is public it's not
transparent and so on we know that of
course we got to take everything when it
comes to China with a grain of salt we
don't want to necessarily um just
believe anything face value and the way
that they do things is different than
they would do so uh in the US and so on
okay they you just give you a little bit
more context I think that is important
but all you need to know for the
purposes right here is that the two
biggest buyers aren't buying and if
that's the case who will come in and if
they're not buying well then what does
it mean for the government because the
government they need to spend a lot of
money right here they need to spend a
lot of money and so when they do that
they have to issue bonds the treasury
does this and so they'll say okay we got
all this debt here and we need to
package that up and sell it off to
investors but when they do so well then
it's a little bit of a challenge if you
don't have the buyers coming in to scoop
all that up the US let's be honest
they've had a monopoly for a very long
time and the reason is simply that
they've had this buyer out there being
able to come in and buy it all up but
now at least in the short term this is
changing so China has been reducing its
treasury Holdings for years when you
look back on the chart on average for
many many many years it's been the
mining at the same time more importantly
anyway we've seen the Federal Reserve
while they had been buying up trillions
in bonds they're not doing so
anymore many have said that the Federal
Reserve and I'm on board with this the
Federal
Reserve will have to be the buyer of
Last Resort and what this means is that
you will have some sort of deflationary
event that takes place maybe some bank
failures it could be anything and so you
have this concern the government says
we've got to suddenly flood the economy
with money when they do that they have
to issue bonds and they have to issue
those at higher yields to make it more
attractive because you don't want to buy
that debt if it's only giving you 2%
when you can get a money market fund
liquid and so on or short-term debt for
you know 5% 6% in many cases so where
are you going to go are you going to buy
a 30-year Bond that's giving you a few
percent or you going to buy the money
market which is giving you 5% so you see
the Dilemma that they have the US
government is really in a precarious
position right here and now because of
this I hope I've made myself clear we're
going to break it down a little further
if you've appreciated this information
so far hit that Thumbs Up Button I've
got more for you right here and now the
treasury will have an unusually high
amount of gross issuance like how many
bonds they got to issue which increases
rollover risk and sensitivity to Future
rate changes so this is Goldman Sachs
estimating that and while we are not in
the same position of 2020 all
governments are basically doing this
like you can see the roughly that same
pattern yes 2020 was a surge in every
sense but now we're on a higher like the
trajectory has gone overboard basically
uh since that point because they need to
pump out more cash from the government
and there's just more debt the deficits
are expanding and that goes for just
about everywhere and so that's okay if
investors are willing to buy that up but
one day they will not and then you've
got a big problem 7 $17
trillion is uh in US treasuries dumped
by bricks Nations China Brazil Saudi
Arabia in one month 17
trillion now I look at that excuse me
billion I'm getting all my zeros mixed
up
um understand that we are talking about
one month and look at the countries of
course fluctuating all the time and you
see this as being something that is
intentional the bricks nations are
moving away slowly but surely from the
US dollar they can't get rid of it
overnight it will be years before they
get rid of these if they intend on
getting rid of them all they might not
of course they might just have it more
balanced whereas before it would have
been you know overwhelmingly US Dollars
now it might be a much more balanced
scenario just like they want with the
multi-polar world or what we've been
hearing a lot of the global South and so
I'm seeing that $17 billion worth one
month it's something to mention of
significance because it's not just the
fed and China but of course those are
the ones we need to pay attention to
closely and I just want to make it clear
interest payments on the federal debt
look at what has happened just in the
last few years it has skyrocketed can
you see that I mean it's shocking the
runup borrow in borrowing costs and the
deficit is renewing concerns about
Washington's fiscal trajectory treasury
announced in July that it would begin to
gradually increase the size of its debt
auctions surprising the market and some
investors now wonder whether the market
can easily absorb all the debt and so
you see when I'm saying this this
information is coming from the Wall
Street Journal I'm reading it from all
of the analysts and what they have to
say and then I just bring that to you
this is a very worrisome scenario for
the United States right here at this
time if they can't pay their bills you
got to realize this if they can't they
don't have those investors they can't
pay their bills and then who has to it's
the Federal
Reserve and when that happens which it's
inevitable at this
point that you will experience the the
inflation you saw from the beginning of
2020 up until today will seem like
nothing compared to where they'll go
when they do this this is something that
we must absolutely must pay attention to
right now I've made my point I think it
is something that we are going to uh
keep our eyes on and of course don't
turn away understand this you got it I'm
sure you got the details now if not not
let me know in the comments and of
course I am going to break it down even
further just know how significant this
plays with the banks and and um you know
the way that this system is working
where we're so heavily reliant on the
banks right now in this time and of
course this has gone on for a long time
but more now than ever because the banks
have been riant on these super low
interest rates
and we are far off from those today all
right we have this really quickly Janet
Yellen made a funny comment just like
her uh we'll never see a crisis In Our
Lifetime well anyway Jan Jan uh she had
talked about the debt cost to GDP ratio
being uh 1% don't worry everybody it's
going to be this really low number
that's all you need to know about this
um
basically it's just not not going to
happen all right uh what she's saying
here would assume uh a weighted average
interest rate of
0.85% that's what that's what she's
basically saying do you think the
interest rates are anywhere near that
today no so is she then suggesting that
we are going to experience super low
interest rates in the near future what
does that say what does that tell us
interesting right unless she believes in
some miracle growth coming out of the us
as well as lower interest rates
something funky is going on isn't it I
want to know your thoughts on that what
do you think you got to know what you
can do I've got some things for you
right
here understand your exposure
Investments that you have the company
you own or you work for and dig look
into those details understand the
connections don't don't sit idly Buy on
that you got to know because there's a
lot happening okay now is not the time
for risk seek um so that's number one
looking at um you know people just going
all I'm going to invest in this new
thing that's you know I have no idea
what it's all about and I'm just going
to put a whole bunch of cash in there
now's not the time for that you do that
that risk on mentality when they're
pumping out the cash that's when we get
stupid
okay not now you can invest in solid
companies you can invest in real assets
but now not the time for the wild stuff
all right and um seek fear as a business
opportunity because a lot of the big
businesses are going to be shying away
from all these things and it's going to
uh allow an opportunity to come forth
okay so so be mindful of that don't hold
long dat debt from any entity anything
whether that's a Corporation whether
that is uh a sovereign nation's debt the
US Germany whatever don't hold the long
stuff it's not good right now you want
to be in the shortest as possible so
that you can turn that over you're
getting the better yields anyway at this
time and we just don't know what's going
to happen so watch that real good stuff
right here um of course if you uh want
this is something to check out if you
want to be able to be a better investor
right now because we're in these
precarious times Seeking Alpha can help
you do that and that's why I partnered
with them um just taking a look right
here this is the page Link in the the
description where you get the 7-Day free
trial and the $50 off as of this
recording it is still on so uh
definitely check that out click the link
you'll be brought to this page you can
get the points this is what's Seeking
Alpha premium I'm talking about premium
not the not the stuff you see on you
know you see these articles on their on
their main site that's just to get you
into the paid stuff this is what the
paid stuff looks like uh and then you go
in you'll be able to see that trending
analysis trending news if you're part of
the alpha piic alpha pix then um they
will give you the webinars and stuff um
through that good stuff anyway check it
out Link in the description if you're
interested and of course the comment of
the day love the comments love your
comments of the day as well I always
want to highlight one if I can what's
worse than just higher prices is that
the quality of things like food and
restaurants has diminished completely
service is nonexistent it's so much
better to eat at home now and that's the
truth that's what a lot of people are
are saying they're experiencing they
don't have the desire to go out as much
as they did before and that slows the
economy down this is of course what
higher interest rates will do and now
we're seeing in front and center I know
you're probably seeing it if you are at
the restaurants the coffee shops uh
other places please let us know in the
comments let's share um i' really like
to know what you are seeing all right
that's it for this video I hope you
appreciated it I'll see you on the next
one take care